EDU-18983 - Release note: Flexible Cart Event Capture in the dataLayer (AF) (#2845)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/release-notes/2026-07-28-activity-flow-flexible-cart-event-capture-in-the-datalayer.md

---

> title: "Activity Flow: Flexible cart event capture in the dataLayer"
> slug: "2026-07-08-activity-flow-flexible-cart-event-capture-in-the-datalayer"
> type: "improved"
> excerpt: "The Activity Flow Web Script data-layer plugin now captures add-to-cart events reliably across storefronts and analytics setups."
> createdAt: "2026-07-08T00:00:00.000Z"
> tags:

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Activity Flow: Flexible cart event capture in the dataLayer"
slug: "2026-07-27-activity-flow-flexible-cart-event-capture-in-the-datalayer"
type: "improved"
excerpt: "The Activity Flow Web Script data-layer plugin now captures add-to-cart events reliably across storefronts and analytics setups."
createdAt: "2026-07-27T00:00:00.000Z"
tags:
```

- Cart events are captured regardless of naming convention, including `add_to_cart`, `addToCart`, `add-to-cart`, `add_to_cart_v2`, and other common variations.
- Automatic filtering of duplicate cart events when GA4 and GAU run simultaneously.
- Elimination of duplicate events caused by multiple Activity Flow script loads.
- Improved reliability of cart event collection without requiring store-specific customizations.

## Why did we make this change?

To replace the PLP and PDP proxy with a more accurate conversion signal, we've improved how the Web Script reads cart events from the `dataLayer`.

This change accounts for direct-to-PDP sessions and PLP-level add-to-cart actions, broadens compatibility across Store Framework, FastStore, headless, and custom storefront implementations, and ensures a single Activity Flow event is generated for each user cart action. It also reduces maintenance effort by supporting new cart event naming conventions without requiring code changes, making the Activity Flow Web Script more resilient to different analytics implementations across storefronts.

## What needs to be done?

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps mention that GA (datalayer) is required.
